Tips | Engineering Drawing



Engineering Drawing





1. You may or may not need tuitions for this subject. However,
   tuitions are recommended.
2. You need to practice drawing a lot. Time is the biggest problem in
   exams and can be knocked out only by practicing.
3. You'll get tired of drawing one day before the exams if you're
   slow. Start practicing as soon as possible.
4. This subject carries 5 credits. Your pointer will be affected if
   you don't score.
5. 'Engineering Drawing by N.H. Dubey' is the best book to buy.
6. Alternative to that is a book by N.D. Bhatt.
7. Choose between a roller scale and a drafter. They both do the same
   job. Select the one you find easy to handle. A small roller scale is
   better than a big one.
8. Ensure enough space for your drawing. If it goes out of paper, you
   have no option but to erase it all and start again.
9. Your measuring instruments should be clean. Rulers and protractors
   with fine dust or carbon film (due to keeping them with a bear pencil)
   would make your paper dirty if you use them.
10. There are tricks to make your drawing complete faster which
    you'll find out yourself when you practice.
11. Only your name and details (in assignments and exams) and nothing
    else should be written on the drawing sheets.
12. You'll get lots of assignments to do from college. Better than
    grumbling about it, take it as a practice question. You'll regret
    doing them yourself one day before the exam.
13. The power of imagination plays an important role in Orthographic
    and Isometric projections. Forget the surrounding and just imagine
    the object. Hope that helps.
14. People are scared of this subject. There's nothing to get scared
    of! Just be at your speed and avoid mistakes. Don't shiver in the
    exam due to time constraint.
15. Projection of Points need not be studied for exams, it's not
    included in the blueprint as you see.
16. Projection of Straight lines is a very, very easy chapter and one
    question is sure to come. No one can stop you from scoring in it if
    you know the master diagram in it. See the master diagram in the
    chapter and relate it to your problem.
17. Projection of Planes need not be studied for exams, it's not
    included in the blueprint as you see.
18. Projection of Solids is a very easy and important chapter. You
    don't need to imagine/think what to draw. Points give you answer at
    every step. Just make sure you project lines to the next stage
    properly.
19. Orthographic Projections is a compulsury question in the end
    semester exam. It is easier than Isometric Projection. Moreover, the
    question is easy in the exam and it's a great loss if you lose marks
    because of this.
20. Isometric Projections need imagination. If you find it really
    difficult and are not able to get correct projections, do Development
    of Surfaces nicely. See the blueprint and plan your study for the end
    semester exam.
21. In the AutoCAD internal exam, place your name plate text box near
    to the drawing, not too far away. Take care it doesn't enter inside
    your drawing or you may lose marks.
22. 
